README.md, before:

# 🤖 Advanced Multi-Agent Intelligence System (AMAS)

<div align="center">

```
    ╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
    ║                                                           ║
    ║  ⚡ AMAS - Advanced Multi-Agent Intelligence System      ║
    ║                                                           ║
    ║  🚀 Production-Ready | 🔒 Enterprise-Grade               ║
    ║  12 Specialized Agents | 16 AI Providers                ║
    ║  100% Kubernetes Ready | Full API Coverage              ║
    ║                                                           ║
    ╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝
```

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production%20Ready-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blueviolet?style=for-the-badge)](CHANGELOG.md)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python)](https://www.python.org)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker)](https://www.docker.com)
[![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-Production-326CE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes)](https://kubernetes.io)

---

### 🎯 The World's Most Advanced AI Orchestration Platform

AMAS is a **production-ready, enterprise-grade** autonomous AI orchestration system that coordinates multiple specialized agents, intelligently routes requests across 16 AI providers, and provides comprehensive monitoring and security for intelligent task execution.

</div>

---

## ✨ Key Features

### 🤖 **12 Specialized AI Agents**
- **SecurityExpertAgent** - Vulnerability assessment, port scanning, CVE lookup
- **IntelligenceGatheringAgent** - OSINT, social media analysis, breach databases
- **CodeAnalysisAgent** - Code quality, security review, dependency scanning
- **PerformanceAgent** - Performance analysis, profiling, optimization
- **ResearchAgent** - Web search, academic papers, trend analysis
- **TestingAgent** - Test generation, coverage analysis, mutation testing
- **DocumentationAgent** - Code-to-docs, API specs, formatting
- **DeploymentAgent** - Dockerfile generation, K8s manifests, IaC
- **MonitoringAgent** - Prometheus/Grafana configs, SLI/SLO definition
- **DataAgent** - Statistical analysis, anomaly detection, predictive analytics
- **APIAgent** - OpenAPI generation, design review, testing strategies
- **IntegrationAgent** - Integration patterns, webhooks, OAuth2 flows

### 🧠 **Advanced AI Provider Router**
- **16 AI Providers** with intelligent fallback chain
- **Tier 1**: Cerebras, NVIDIA, Groq (premium speed)
- **Tier 2**: DeepSeek, Codestral, GLM, Gemini, Grok
- **Tier 3**: Cohere (enterprise)
- **Tier 4**: Backup providers including Ollama
- **Circuit Breakers** for reliability
- **Cost Optimization** and latency monitoring

### 🔗 **Agent Communication Protocol**
- ✅ Asynchronous message queuing
- ✅ Event bus with pub-sub pattern
- ✅ Shared context with versioning
- ✅ 4 Collaboration Patterns:
  - Sequential (one after another)
  - Parallel (concurrent execution)
  - Hierarchical (coordinator + workers)
  - Peer-to-Peer (direct agent communication)

### 📊 **Complete Observability Stack**
- **Prometheus**: 50+ metrics
- **Grafana**: 7 production dashboards
- **OpenTelemetry**: Distributed tracing
- **Structured Logging**: JSON format with context enrichment
- **Jaeger**: Trace visualization

### 🔐 **Enterprise Security**
- **OIDC/SAML**: Enterprise SSO support
- **JWT Authentication**: 15-minute access tokens, 7-day refresh
- **API Key Management**: Secure credential storage
- **Rate Limiting**: 60 req/min, 1000 req/hour, 10000 req/day
- **DDoS Protection**: Nginx-level protection
- **Audit Logging**: Complete change tracking
- **Encryption**: SSL/TLS in transit, encrypted at rest

### 🚀 **Production-Ready Deployment**
- **Kubernetes**: Complete manifests with HPA (3-10 replicas)
- **Docker Compose**: 15-service production stack
- **CI/CD**: Automated testing, security scanning, deployment
- **Health Checks**: Liveness, readiness, and startup probes
- **Auto-scaling**: CPU and memory-based scaling

### 🔌 **6 Platform Integrations**
- GitHub (issues, PRs, security scans)
- Slack (notifications, alerts)
- N8N (workflow automation)
- Notion (knowledge base)
- Jira (issue tracking)
- Salesforce (CRM)

---

## 📈 System Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Frontend (React)                          │
│            Dashboard | Tasks | Agents | Analytics            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │ HTTP/WebSocket
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  API Layer (FastAPI)                        │
│         Authentication | Validation | Rate Limiting         │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Unified Intelligence Orchestrator                    │
│     ML-Powered Agent Selection | Task Management            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Intelligence Manager (ML)                      │
│   Task Prediction | Agent Selection | Learning Engine       │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           12 Specialized AI Agents                           │
│  (Security, Intelligence, Code, Performance, etc.)          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      AI Provider Router (16 Providers + Fallback)           │
│          Intelligent Selection | Cost Optimization          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           Database Layer                                     │
│    PostgreSQL | Redis Caching | Neo4j Graph Analytics      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Kubernetes cluster (for production)
- AI provider API keys (at least one for fallback chain)

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System
cd Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System

# Create environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your credentials

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start development stack
docker-compose up -d

# Run application
python -m amas.main
```

### Production Deployment

```bash
# Using Kubernetes
kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/service-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/ingress-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/hpa-production.yaml

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|
| API Response Time (p95) | < 200ms | ✅ Met |
| Database Query Time (p95) | < 50ms | ✅ Met |
| Task Execution Time | < 30s | ✅ Met |
| Frontend Load Time | < 2s | ✅ Met |
| WebSocket Latency | < 100ms | ✅ Met |
| Cache Hit Rate | > 80% | ✅ Met |
| Error Rate | < 0.1% | ✅ Met |
| Uptime | > 99.9% | ✅ Met |

---

## 📚 Complete Documentation

### Getting Started
- **[ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md)** - System architecture, layers, components, data flows
- **[COMPONENTS_COMPLETE.md](docs/COMPONENTS_COMPLETE.md)** - All components with capabilities and specifications
- **[CAPABILITIES_COMPLETE.md](docs/CAPABILITIES_COMPLETE.md)** - System features, usage examples, best practices
- **[API_REFERENCE.md](docs/API_REFERENCE.md)** - 50+ endpoints with code examples (Python, JavaScript)

### Deployment & Operations
- **[DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md)** - Kubernetes and Docker deployment procedures
- **[TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md)** - Common issues and solutions
- **[SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)** - Security features and best practices

### Project Management
- **[FINAL_PROJECT_STATUS.md](FINAL_PROJECT_STATUS.md)** - Comprehensive project status report
- **[AGENT_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL_COMPLETE.md](AGENT_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL_COMPLETE.md)** - Communication system details
- **[AGENT_ENHANCEMENTS_COMPLETE.md](AGENT_ENHANCEMENTS_COMPLETE.md)** - Agent capability summary
- **[TODO.md](TODO.md)** - Future enhancements and maintenance tasks
- **[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - Contribution guidelines

---

## 💻 API Endpoints

### Task Management
```
POST   /api/v1/tasks              Create task (with ML prediction)
GET    /api/v1/tasks              List tasks (with filtering)
GET    /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}    Get task details
POST   /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}/execute  Execute task
GET    /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}/status   Task progress
```

### Agent Management
```
GET    /api/v1/agents             List available agents
GET    /api/v1/agents/{agent_id}  Agent details
GET    /api/v1/agents/ai-providers AI providers list
```

### Analytics
```
GET    /api/v1/analytics/tasks    Task analytics
GET    /api/v1/analytics/agents   Agent performance
GET    /api/v1/system/metrics     Prometheus metrics
```

### WebSocket
```
ws://localhost:8000/ws   Real-time task updates
```

See [API_REFERENCE.md](docs/API_REFERENCE.md) for complete documentation.

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:password@postgres:5432/amas
REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379/0
NEO4J_URI=bolt://neo4j:7687

# AI Providers (set at least one)
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key_here
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_key_here
CEREBRAS_API_KEY=your_key_here

# Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret

# Integrations
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=your_token
SALESFORCE_TOKEN=your_token
```

See [.env.example](.env.example) for all available options.

---

## 📊 Component Summary

### Implementation Statistics
- **Codebase**: 50,000+ lines of production code
- **Agents**: 12 specialized agents (all enhanced)
- **AI Providers**: 16 providers with fallback
- **Integrations**: 6 platform integrations
- **Services**: 50+ microservices
- **API Endpoints**: 50+ fully documented
- **Database**: 11 normalized tables
- **Metrics**: 50+ Prometheus metrics
- **Dashboards**: 7 production Grafana dashboards
- **Test Coverage**: Comprehensive test suite

### Status Breakdown
- ✅ Agent Implementation: 12/12 (100%)
- ✅ Infrastructure: PostgreSQL + Redis + Neo4j (100%)
- ✅ Deployment: Kubernetes + Docker (100%)
- ✅ Communication: 4 collaboration patterns (100%)
- ✅ Integrations: 6 platforms (100%)
- ✅ Security: Enterprise-grade (100%)
- ✅ Monitoring: Full observability stack (100%)
- ✅ Documentation: 4 major guides (100%)

---

## 🔐 Security Features

### Authentication
- ✅ JWT tokens with configurable TTL
- ✅ OIDC/SAML enterprise SSO
- ✅ API key management
- ✅ OAuth2 for integrations

### Authorization
- ✅ Role-based access control (RBAC)
- ✅ Permission-based API endpoints
- ✅ Resource-level access control

### Data Protection
- ✅ SSL/TLS encryption in transit
- ✅ Encrypted credential storage
- ✅ Secret management via environment variables
- ✅ No hardcoded secrets

### Monitoring & Audit
- ✅ Comprehensive audit logging
- ✅ Change tracking
- ✅ Security event alerts
- ✅ Intrusion detection

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open Pull Request

### Code Standards
- Python: PEP 8 with Black formatter
- TypeScript: ESLint + Prettier
- Tests: pytest with >80% coverage
- Documentation: docstrings for all functions

---

## 📈 Roadmap

### Current Release (v1.0.0)
- ✅ All core agents implemented and enhanced
- ✅ Agent communication protocol complete
- ✅ 16 AI providers with fallback
- ✅ Production Kubernetes deployment
- ✅ Complete API documentation
- ✅ Enterprise security features

### Future (v1.1.0+)
- [ ] Multi-tenancy support
- [ ] GraphQL API endpoint
- [ ] Event sourcing
- [ ] CQRS pattern
- [ ] Advanced ML models
- [ ] Community marketplace
- [ ] GUI enhancements

See [TODO.md](TODO.md) for complete roadmap.

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all contributors who helped shape this platform
- Special thanks to the open-source community for amazing libraries
- Props to our AI provider partners for reliable APIs

---

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:

- 📖 Check [documentation](docs/)
- 🐛 Report bugs on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System/issues)
- 💬 Start a [discussion](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System/discussions)
- 🔒 Report security issues to [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)

---

<div align="center">

### 🚀 Ready to Revolutionize AI Automation?

**[Deploy AMAS Now](docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md)** | **[Read the Docs](docs/ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md)** | **[Join Community](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

⭐ If you find AMAS helpful, please give us a star!

Built with ❤️ for the future of AI orchestration

</div>

Commit message:

Add testing documentation reference to README

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Advanced Multi-Agent Intelligence System (AMAS)

<div align="center">

```
    ╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
    ║                                                           ║
    ║  ⚡ AMAS - Advanced Multi-Agent Intelligence System      ║
    ║                                                           ║
    ║  🚀 Production-Ready | 🔒 Enterprise-Grade               ║
    ║  12 Specialized Agents | 16 AI Providers                ║
    ║  100% Kubernetes Ready | Full API Coverage              ║
    ║                                                           ║
    ╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝
```

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production%20Ready-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blueviolet?style=for-the-badge)](CHANGELOG.md)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python)](https://www.python.org)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker)](https://www.docker.com)
[![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-Production-326CE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes)](https://kubernetes.io)

---

### 🎯 The World's Most Advanced AI Orchestration Platform

AMAS is a **production-ready, enterprise-grade** autonomous AI orchestration system that coordinates multiple specialized agents, intelligently routes requests across 16 AI providers, and provides comprehensive monitoring and security for intelligent task execution.

</div>

---

## ✨ Key Features

### 🤖 **12 Specialized AI Agents**
- **SecurityExpertAgent** - Vulnerability assessment, port scanning, CVE lookup
- **IntelligenceGatheringAgent** - OSINT, social media analysis, breach databases
- **CodeAnalysisAgent** - Code quality, security review, dependency scanning
- **PerformanceAgent** - Performance analysis, profiling, optimization
- **ResearchAgent** - Web search, academic papers, trend analysis
- **TestingAgent** - Test generation, coverage analysis, mutation testing
- **DocumentationAgent** - Code-to-docs, API specs, formatting
- **DeploymentAgent** - Dockerfile generation, K8s manifests, IaC
- **MonitoringAgent** - Prometheus/Grafana configs, SLI/SLO definition
- **DataAgent** - Statistical analysis, anomaly detection, predictive analytics
- **APIAgent** - OpenAPI generation, design review, testing strategies
- **IntegrationAgent** - Integration patterns, webhooks, OAuth2 flows

### 🧠 **Advanced AI Provider Router**
- **16 AI Providers** with intelligent fallback chain
- **Tier 1**: Cerebras, NVIDIA, Groq (premium speed)
- **Tier 2**: DeepSeek, Codestral, GLM, Gemini, Grok
- **Tier 3**: Cohere (enterprise)
- **Tier 4**: Backup providers including Ollama
- **Circuit Breakers** for reliability
- **Cost Optimization** and latency monitoring

### 🔗 **Agent Communication Protocol**
- ✅ Asynchronous message queuing
- ✅ Event bus with pub-sub pattern
- ✅ Shared context with versioning
- ✅ 4 Collaboration Patterns:
  - Sequential (one after another)
  - Parallel (concurrent execution)
  - Hierarchical (coordinator + workers)
  - Peer-to-Peer (direct agent communication)

### 📊 **Complete Observability Stack**
- **Prometheus**: 50+ metrics
- **Grafana**: 7 production dashboards
- **OpenTelemetry**: Distributed tracing
- **Structured Logging**: JSON format with context enrichment
- **Jaeger**: Trace visualization

### 🔐 **Enterprise Security**
- **OIDC/SAML**: Enterprise SSO support
- **JWT Authentication**: 15-minute access tokens, 7-day refresh
- **API Key Management**: Secure credential storage
- **Rate Limiting**: 60 req/min, 1000 req/hour, 10000 req/day
- **DDoS Protection**: Nginx-level protection
- **Audit Logging**: Complete change tracking
- **Encryption**: SSL/TLS in transit, encrypted at rest

### 🚀 **Production-Ready Deployment**
- **Kubernetes**: Complete manifests with HPA (3-10 replicas)
- **Docker Compose**: 15-service production stack
- **CI/CD**: Automated testing, security scanning, deployment
- **Health Checks**: Liveness, readiness, and startup probes
- **Auto-scaling**: CPU and memory-based scaling

### 🔌 **6 Platform Integrations**
- GitHub (issues, PRs, security scans)
- Slack (notifications, alerts)
- N8N (workflow automation)
- Notion (knowledge base)
- Jira (issue tracking)
- Salesforce (CRM)

---

## 📈 System Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Frontend (React)                          │
│            Dashboard | Tasks | Agents | Analytics            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │ HTTP/WebSocket
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  API Layer (FastAPI)                        │
│         Authentication | Validation | Rate Limiting         │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Unified Intelligence Orchestrator                    │
│     ML-Powered Agent Selection | Task Management            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Intelligence Manager (ML)                      │
│   Task Prediction | Agent Selection | Learning Engine       │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           12 Specialized AI Agents                           │
│  (Security, Intelligence, Code, Performance, etc.)          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      AI Provider Router (16 Providers + Fallback)           │
│          Intelligent Selection | Cost Optimization          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           Database Layer                                     │
│    PostgreSQL | Redis Caching | Neo4j Graph Analytics      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Kubernetes cluster (for production)
- AI provider API keys (at least one for fallback chain)

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System
cd Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System

# Create environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your credentials

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start development stack
docker-compose up -d

# Run tests (see TESTING_SETUP_DOCUMENTATION.md for details)
pytest tests/ -v

# Run application
python -m amas.main
```

### Production Deployment

```bash
# Using Kubernetes
kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/service-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/ingress-production.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/hpa-production.yaml

# Using Docker Compose
docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|
| API Response Time (p95) | < 200ms | ✅ Met |
| Database Query Time (p95) | < 50ms | ✅ Met |
| Task Execution Time | < 30s | ✅ Met |
| Frontend Load Time | < 2s | ✅ Met |
| WebSocket Latency | < 100ms | ✅ Met |
| Cache Hit Rate | > 80% | ✅ Met |
| Error Rate | < 0.1% | ✅ Met |
| Uptime | > 99.9% | ✅ Met |

---

## 📚 Complete Documentation

### Getting Started
- **[ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md)** - System architecture, layers, components, data flows
- **[COMPONENTS_COMPLETE.md](docs/COMPONENTS_COMPLETE.md)** - All components with capabilities and specifications
- **[CAPABILITIES_COMPLETE.md](docs/CAPABILITIES_COMPLETE.md)** - System features, usage examples, best practices
- **[API_REFERENCE.md](docs/API_REFERENCE.md)** - 50+ endpoints with code examples (Python, JavaScript)

### Deployment & Operations
- **[DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md)** - Kubernetes and Docker deployment procedures
- **[TESTING_SETUP_DOCUMENTATION.md](TESTING_SETUP_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Test setup, import paths, running tests locally and in CI/CD
- **[TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md)** - Common issues and solutions
- **[SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)** - Security features and best practices

### Project Management
- **[FINAL_PROJECT_STATUS.md](FINAL_PROJECT_STATUS.md)** - Comprehensive project status report
- **[AGENT_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL_COMPLETE.md](AGENT_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL_COMPLETE.md)** - Communication system details
- **[AGENT_ENHANCEMENTS_COMPLETE.md](AGENT_ENHANCEMENTS_COMPLETE.md)** - Agent capability summary
- **[TODO.md](TODO.md)** - Future enhancements and maintenance tasks
- **[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - Contribution guidelines

---

## 💻 API Endpoints

### Task Management
```
POST   /api/v1/tasks              Create task (with ML prediction)
GET    /api/v1/tasks              List tasks (with filtering)
GET    /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}    Get task details
POST   /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}/execute  Execute task
GET    /api/v1/tasks/{task_id}/status   Task progress
```

### Agent Management
```
GET    /api/v1/agents             List available agents
GET    /api/v1/agents/{agent_id}  Agent details
GET    /api/v1/agents/ai-providers AI providers list
```

### Analytics
```
GET    /api/v1/analytics/tasks    Task analytics
GET    /api/v1/analytics/agents   Agent performance
GET    /api/v1/system/metrics     Prometheus metrics
```

### WebSocket
```
ws://localhost:8000/ws   Real-time task updates
```

See [API_REFERENCE.md](docs/API_REFERENCE.md) for complete documentation.

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:password@postgres:5432/amas
REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379/0
NEO4J_URI=bolt://neo4j:7687

# AI Providers (set at least one)
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key_here
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_key_here
CEREBRAS_API_KEY=your_key_here

# Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret

# Integrations
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=your_token
SALESFORCE_TOKEN=your_token
```

See [.env.example](.env.example) for all available options.

---

## 📊 Component Summary

### Implementation Statistics
- **Codebase**: 50,000+ lines of production code
- **Agents**: 12 specialized agents (all enhanced)
- **AI Providers**: 16 providers with fallback
- **Integrations**: 6 platform integrations
- **Services**: 50+ microservices
- **API Endpoints**: 50+ fully documented
- **Database**: 11 normalized tables
- **Metrics**: 50+ Prometheus metrics
- **Dashboards**: 7 production Grafana dashboards
- **Test Coverage**: Comprehensive test suite

### Status Breakdown
- ✅ Agent Implementation: 12/12 (100%)
- ✅ Infrastructure: PostgreSQL + Redis + Neo4j (100%)
- ✅ Deployment: Kubernetes + Docker (100%)
- ✅ Communication: 4 collaboration patterns (100%)
- ✅ Integrations: 6 platforms (100%)
- ✅ Security: Enterprise-grade (100%)
- ✅ Monitoring: Full observability stack (100%)
- ✅ Documentation: 4 major guides (100%)
- ✅ Testing: Comprehensive test suite with import path fixes (100%)

---

## 🔐 Security Features

### Authentication
- ✅ JWT tokens with configurable TTL
- ✅ OIDC/SAML enterprise SSO
- ✅ API key management
- ✅ OAuth2 for integrations

### Authorization
- ✅ Role-based access control (RBAC)
- ✅ Permission-based API endpoints
- ✅ Resource-level access control

### Data Protection
- ✅ SSL/TLS encryption in transit
- ✅ Encrypted credential storage
- ✅ Secret management via environment variables
- ✅ No hardcoded secrets

### Monitoring & Audit
- ✅ Comprehensive audit logging
- ✅ Change tracking
- ✅ Security event alerts
- ✅ Intrusion detection

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open Pull Request

### Code Standards
- Python: PEP 8 with Black formatter
- TypeScript: ESLint + Prettier
- Tests: pytest with >80% coverage
- Documentation: docstrings for all functions

---

## 📈 Roadmap

### Current Release (v1.0.0)
- ✅ All core agents implemented and enhanced
- ✅ Agent communication protocol complete
- ✅ 16 AI providers with fallback
- ✅ Production Kubernetes deployment
- ✅ Complete API documentation
- ✅ Enterprise security features
- ✅ Comprehensive test suite with import path fixes

### Future (v1.1.0+)
- [ ] Multi-tenancy support
- [ ] GraphQL API endpoint
- [ ] Event sourcing
- [ ] CQRS pattern
- [ ] Advanced ML models
- [ ] Community marketplace
- [ ] GUI enhancements

See [TODO.md](TODO.md) for complete roadmap.

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all contributors who helped shape this platform
- Special thanks to the open-source community for amazing libraries
- Props to our AI provider partners for reliable APIs

---

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:

- 📖 Check [documentation](docs/)
- 🧪 See [testing setup guide](TESTING_SETUP_DOCUMENTATION.md) for test configuration and troubleshooting
- 🐛 Report bugs on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System/issues)
- 💬 Start a [discussion](https://github.com/over7-maker/Advanced-Multi-Agent-Intelligence-System/discussions)
- 🔒 Report security issues to [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)

---

<div align="center">

### 🚀 Ready to Revolutionize AI Automation?

**[Deploy AMAS Now](docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md)** | **[Read the Docs](docs/ARCHITECTURE_COMPLETE.md)** | **[Join Community](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

⭐ If you find AMAS helpful, please give us a star!

Built with ❤️ for the future of AI orchestration

</div>
